you
in this lecture we continue the
discussion of vectors various model in
particular we are going to talk about
the TF transformation in the previous
lecture we have derived the TF idea of
weighting formula using the vector space
model and we have seen that this model
actually works pretty well for these
examples as shown on this slide except
for d5 which has received a very high
score indeed it has received with the
highest score among all these documents
but this document is intuitively non
redundant so this is not desirable in
this lecture we're going to talk about
how we can use TF transformation to
solve this problem before we discuss the
details let's take a look at the formula
for this simple here for I give waiting
ranking function and see why this
document has received such a high school
so this is the formula and if you look
at the formula carefully then you will
see it involves a sum over all the match
the query terms and inside the sum each
metric query term has a particular
weight and this way it is tf-idf waiting
so it has an IDF component where we see
two variables one is the total number of
documents in the collection and that is
M the other is the document frequency
this is the number of documents that
contain this world W the other variables
in involving the formula include the
character of the query term
w in the query and the count of the word
in the document if you look at this
document again now it's not hard to
realize that the reason why it hasn't
received the highest score is because it
has a very high count of campaign so the
count of campaign in this document is a
four which is much higher than the other
document and has contributed to the high
score of this document so intuitively in
order to lower the scope of this
document we need to somehow restrict the
contribution of the matching of this
term in the document and if you think
about the matching of terms in the
document carefully you actually would
realize we probably shouldn't reward
multiple occurrences so generously and
by that I mean the first occurrence of
time says a lot about the matching of
this term because it goes from zero
count to a count of one and that
increase means a lot once we see a word
in the document it's very likely the
document is talking about this work if
we see your extra occurrence on top of
the first occurrence that is to go from
1 to 2 then we also can say that whether
the second occurrence kind of confirmed
that it's not a excellent amazing of the
world now we are more sure that this
document is talking about this world
promoting we have seen let's say 50
times of the world in the document then
adding one extra occurrence is not going
to tell us more about evidence because
we already sure that this document is
about this work so if you think in this
way it seems that we should restrict the
contribution of high count of term and
that is the idea of careful
transformation so this
formation function is going to turn the
raw account of word into a term
frequency wait for the word in the
document so here I show in x-axis that
rock and and in y-axis I show the term
frequency wait so in the previous
ranking functions we actually have
implicitly used some kind of
transformation so for example in the
zero one bitmap the return taking we
actually use the searcher transformation
function as shown here basically if the
count is zero then it has zero weight
otherwise it would have a weight of 1
it's a flag now what about the using
term count as TF weight well that's the
linear function right so it has just
exactly the same weight as the count now
we have just seen that this is not
desirable so what we want is something
like this so for example with the
logarithm function we can have a sub
linear transformation that looks like
this and this would control the
influence of really high weight because
it's going to lower its inference yet it
will retain the influence of small count
all we might want to even bend the curve
more by applying logarithm and price now
people have tried all these methods and
they are indeed working better than the
linear form of the transformation but so
far what works the best seems to be this
special transformation called a p.m. 25
transformation p.m. stands for best
matching now in this transformation you
can see there's a parameter K here and
this K controls the upper bound of this
function it's easy to see this function
has an upper bound because if you look
at the X divided by X plus K where K is
a non-negative number then the numerator
will never be able to exceed
the denominator so it's upper bounded by
K plus 1 now this is also a difference
between this transformation function and
a logarithm transformation which doesn't
have a upper bound furthermore one
interesting property of this function
that as we vary K we can actually
simulate different transformation
functions including the two extremes
that I've shown here that is the 0 1 big
transformation and the linear
transformation so for example if we set
K to 0 now you can see the function
value would be 1 so we precisely recover
the 0 1 bit transformation if you set K
to a very large number on there then
other hand it's going to look more like
the linear transformation function so in
this sense this transformation is very
flexible it allows us to control the
shape of the transformation it also has
a nice property of the upper bound and
this upper bound is useful to control
the influence of a particular term and
so that we can prevent a spammer from
just increasing the count of one term to
spend all clearance that might match
this time in other words this admin
might also ensure that all terms would
be counted when we aggregate the weights
to computer school as I said this
transformation function has worked well
so far so to summarize this lecture the
main point is that we need to do
suddenly near diva TF transformation and
this is needed to capture the intuition
of diminishing return from higher term
counts it's also to avoid the dominance
by one singer term over others this PM
25 trans motion transformation that we
talked about is very interesting it's so
far one of the best performing
Tietjens movie formation formulas it has
an upper bound and social robust and
effective now for plucking this function
into our tf-idf waiting vector space
model then we would end up having the
following ranking function which has a
p.m. 25 TF component now this is already
very close to a state of the art ranking
function powder PM 25 and we'll discuss
how we can further improve this formula
in the next lecture
you
[Music]